(DOCSP-43345) Atlas Enterprise Arch: Compliance (#31)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/compliance.txt

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: atlas architecture center, GDPR, ISO, PCI-DDS, FedRAMP, HIPAA
   :description: Learn how MongoDB Atlas meets compliance and regulation controls..

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: onecol

This section lists the key considerations that allow you to enforce strict
compliance controls for your deployments in {+service+}.

> {+service+} Features and Best Practices for Compliance

Reviewer: Suggestion to align with a change we made on other pages (and because we're not making recommendations for this topic)
```suggestion
{+service+} Features for Compliance
```

------------------------------------------------------

Use the following {+service+} features to address compliance requirements:

> - :ref:`arch-center-compliance-certs`
> - :ref:`arch-center-compliance-encryption`
> - :ref:`arch-center-compliance-data-sovereignty`
> - :ref:`arch-center-compliance-backup-distribution`
> - :ref:`arch-center-compliance-backup-compliance-policy`

Reviewer: Let's remove this bulleted list just to align with other pages
```suggestion
```

.. _arch-center-compliance-certs:

Certifications and Compliance with Regulations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To help you address security and privacy requirements, MongoDB {+service+}
aims to deliver the highest levels of standards conformance and regulatory
compliance.

{+service+} data platform undergoes rigorous independent audits to verify
its security, privacy, and organizational controls. These audits help ensure
that the platform  meets compliance and regulatory requirements, including
those specific to highly-regulated industries.

{+service+} has ISO/IEC 27001 and 9001, PCI DSS, HIPAA, GDPR, FedRAMP, and
several other certifications. The full list of certifications is included
in this section.

These certifications serve as a foundation for meeting
industry-specific regulatory requirements. Use these certifications
to maintain security controls and ensure that your data practices align
with necessary compliance demands.

{+service+} maintains the following certifications:

> - ISO/IEC 27001:2022: Global standard for information security management systems.
> - ISO/IEC 27017:2015: Global standard for cloud-specific security controls.
> - ISO/IEC 27018:2019: Global standard for protecting sensitive data (PII) on the cloud.
> - ISO 9001:2015: Globally recognized standard for Quality Management.
> - PCI DSS: Requirements for processing and accessing credit card data.
> - HIPAA: U.S. privacy regulation safeguarding health information.
> - GDPR: General Data Protection Regulation in the EU and EEA.
> - IRAP: Australian government cybersecurity assessment framework.
> - TX-RAMP: Texas Risk and Authorization Management Program.
> - TISAX: Trusted Information Security Assessment Exchange for automotive industries.
> - HDS: French standard for hosting health data (Hébergeur de Données de Santé).

Reviewer: Nit: can we bold the names of the standards so they stand out?
```suggestion
- **ISO/IEC 27001:2022**: Global standard for information security management systems.
- **ISO/IEC 27017:2015**: Global standard for cloud-specific security controls.
- **ISO/IEC 27018:2019**: Global standard for protecting sensitive data (PII) on the cloud.
- **ISO 9001:2015**: Globally-recognized standard for Quality Management.
- **PCI DSS**: Requirements for processing and accessing credit card data.
- **HIPAA**: U.S. privacy regulation safeguarding health information.
- **GDPR**: General Data Protection Regulation in the EU and EEA.
- **IRAP**: Australian government cybersecurity assessment framework.
- **TX-RAMP**: Texas Risk and Authorization Management Program.
- **TISAX**: Trusted Information Security Assessment Exchange for automotive industries.
- **HDS**: French standard for hosting health data (Hébergeur de Données de Santé).
```

To learn more, visit the |atlas-trust|, a comprehensive compliance and
trust program for MongoDB {+service+}.

.. _arch-center-compliance-encryption:

Encryption
~~~~~~~~~~

> Implement encryption to ensure data security and compliance across all

Reviewer: Reframe this as "you can" because this page isn't making recommendations (compliance recs will be in a future version)
```suggestion
You can implement encryption to ensure data security and compliance across all
```

stages of data handling.

- By default, |service| encrypts data in transit. To ensure data privacy and
  regulatory compliance, |service| requires |tls-ssl| to encrypt the connections
  to your databases. In addition, you can configure SSL or TLS OCSP certificate
  revocation checking. To learn more,
  see :atlas:`OCSP Certificate Revocation Check <oscp-cert-check>`.

- By default, |service| encrypts all data at rest. |service| uses |AES-256|
  encryption to encrypt all data stored in |s3| buckets in your |service|
  {+database-deployments+}.
  In addition, |service| supports using |aws| |kms|, Azure Key Vault, and |gcp| to
  encrypt storage engines and cloud provider backups. To learn more, see
  :atlas:`Encryption at Rest using your Key Management 
  <security-kms-encryption>`. 

> - Use :manual:`queryable encryption </core/queryable-encryption/>` to secure

Reviewer: Reframe this as "you can" because this page isn't making recommendations (compliance recs will be in a future version)
```suggestion
- You can use :manual:`queryable encryption </core/queryable-encryption/>` to secure
```

    server-side.
  - Run expressive queries on the encrypted data. Choose encryption configurations
    that support expressive queries on the encrypted data.

  MongoDB completes these tasks without the server having knowledge of the data
  it's processing.

  Sensitive data is encrypted throughout its lifecycle, in-transit, at-rest, in-use,
  in logs, and backups. The data is only ever decrypted on the client-side,
  since only you have access to the encryption keys.

  You can set up {+qe+} using the following mechanisms:

  - :manual:`Automatic Encryption <csfle-tutorial-automatic-encryption>`
    enables you to perform encrypted read and write operations without
    having to add explicit calls to encrypt and decrypt fields.
  - :manual:`Manual Encryption <qe-tutorials-manual-encryption>` enables
    you to perform encrypted read and write operations through your MongoDB
    driver's encryption library. You must specify the logic for encryption
    with this library throughout your application.

.. _arch-center-compliance-data-sovereignty:

Data Sovereignty
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

{+service+} simplifies data sovereignty compliance through the following features:

> - Multi-cloud and multi-region {+clusters+}.
> 
>   Use multi-region and multi-cloud {+clusters+} to distribute data across
>   geographically-diverse regions and cloud providers. To learn more,
>   see :atlas:`Create Multi-Cloud Multi-Region MongoDB Deployments for High
>   Availability and Workload Isolation <create-cluster-multi-region>`.
> 
>   Create {+clusters+} in any of the 110+ cloud regions across the three
>   major cloud providers, |gcp|, |aws|, and |azure|. With {+service+},
>   you can deploy dedicated MongoDB {+clusters+} in a specific cloud
>   provider and region of your choice. This approach increases security,
>   reduces the risk of localized failures, and ensures data redundancy.
> 
>   For example, a European company handling sensitive customer data can
>   choose to deploy their MongoDB {+cluster+} in a data center located
>   within the European Union, such as in Frankfurt, Germany, using |aws|
>   or another cloud provider. By doing so, the company ensures that all
>   data remains within EU borders and complies with the GDPR.

Reviewer: Let's take this bullet out please
```suggestion
```

- Global {+clusters+} with zoned sharding.

>   Use global {+clusters+} to control data storage locations. You can

Reviewer: Reframe this as "you can" because this page isn't making recommendations (compliance recs will be in a future version)
```suggestion
  You can use global {+clusters+} to control data storage locations. You can
```

  partition and store data in your database into distinct zones, each
  situated in a different geographical location. To learn more,
  see :atlas:`Global Clusters <global-clusters>`.
  
  For example, you can store European customer data in Europe, while
  storing U.S. customer data in the U.S. This allows you to comply with
  data sovereignty regulations and reduces latency for users accessing
  data from their respective regions.

.. _arch-center-compliance-backup-distribution:

Backup Snapshot Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Multi-region snapshot distribution. Distribute backup snapshots and oplog data

Reviewer: Reframe this as "you can" because this page isn't making recommendations (compliance recs will be in a future version)
```suggestion
You can distribute backup snapshots and oplog data
```

across multiple regions. For example, you can satisfy compliance requirements
and store backups in different, air-gapped geographical locations to
ensure disaster recovery in case of regional outages. To learn more,
see :atlas:`Snapshot Distribution <snapshot-distribution>`.

.. _arch-center-compliance-backup-compliance-policy:

Backup Compliance Policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Use |bcp| in {+service+} to secure business-critical data. You can prevent

Reviewer: Reframe this as "you can" because this page isn't making recommendations (compliance recs will be in a future version)
```suggestion
You can use |bcp| in {+service+} to secure business-critical data. You can prevent
```
